azure exporter: Enable features from upstream exporter (#5707)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/prometheus.exporter.azure.md

# prometheus.exporter.azure

The `prometheus.exporter.azure` component embeds [`azure-metrics-exporter`](https://github.com/webdevops/azure-metrics-exporter) to collect metrics from [Azure Monitor](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/monitor).  

The exporter supports all metrics defined by Azure Monitor. You can find the complete list of available metrics in the [Azure Monitor documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-supported).
Metrics for this integration are exposed with the template `azure_{type}_{metric}_{aggregation}_{unit}` by default. As an example,
the Egress metric for BlobService would be exported as `azure_microsoft_storage_storageaccounts_blobservices_egress_total_bytes`.

> The exporter offers two options for gathering metrics,
> 1. (Default) Use an [Azure Resource Graph](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/get-started/azure-portal/resource-graph/#overview) query to identify resources for gathering metrics
>    1. This will make 1 API call per resource identified
>    1. Subscriptions with a reasonable amount of resources are liable to hit the [12000 requests per hour rate limit](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/request-limits-and-throttling#subscription-and-tenant-limits) azure enforces 
> 1. Set the regions to gather metrics from and get metrics for all resources across those regions
>    1. This will make an API call per subscription reducing the number of API calls dramatically 
>    1. This approach does not work with all resource types and Azure's does not document which resource types do/do not work
>    1. A resource type which is not support will produce errors which look like `Resource type: microsoft.containerservice/managedclusters not enabled for Cross Resource metrics`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exporter offers the following two options for gathering metrics.

1. (Default) Use an [Azure Resource Graph](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/get-started/azure-portal/resource-graph/#overview) query to identify resources for gathering metrics.
   1. This query will make one API call per resource identified.
   1. Subscriptions with a reasonable amount of resources can hit the [12000 requests per hour rate limit](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/request-limits-and-throttling#subscription-and-tenant-limits) Azure enforces.
1. Set the regions to gather metrics from and get metrics for all resources across those regions.
   1. This option will make one API call per subscription, dramatically reducing the number of API calls.
   1. This approach does not work with all resource types, and Azure does not document which resource types do or do not work.
   1. A resource type that is not supported produces errors that look like `Resource type: microsoft.containerservice/managedclusters not enabled for Cross Resource metrics`.
```

## Authentication

Grafana agent must be running in an environment with access to Azure. The exporter uses the Azure SDK for go and supports [authentication](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/go/azure-sdk-authentication?tabs=bash#2-authenticate-with-azure).

The account used by Grafana Agent needs:

> - When using an Azure Resoure Graph query, [read access to the resources that will be queried by Resource Graph](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/resource-graph/overview#permissions-in-azure-resource-graph)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Read access to the resources that will be queried by Resource Graph](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/resource-graph/overview#permissions-in-azure-resource-graph) if you are using an Azure Resource Graph query.
```

You can use the following arguments to configure the exporter's behavior.
Omitted fields take their default values.

| Name                          | Type           | Description                                                                                                                                                            | Default                                                                       | Required |
|-------------------------------|----------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|

> | `subscriptions`               | `list(string)` | List of subscriptions to scrap metrics from.                                                                                                                           |                                                                               | yes      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `subscriptions`               | `list(string)` | List of subscriptions to scrape metrics from.                                                                                                                           |                                                                               | yes      |
```

| `resource_type`               | `string`       | The Azure Resource Type to scrape metrics for.                                                                                                                         |                                                                               | yes      |
| `metrics`                     | `list(string)` | The metrics to scrape from resources.                                                                                                                                  |                                                                               | yes      |

> | `resource_graph_query_filter` | `string`       | The [Kusto query][] filter to apply when searching for resources. Cannot be used if `regions` is set.                                                                  |                                                                               | no       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `resource_graph_query_filter` | `string`       | The [Kusto query][] filter to apply when searching for resources. Can't be used if `regions` is set.                                                                  |                                                                               | no       |
```

> | `regions`                     | `list(string)` | The list of regions for gathering metrics and enables gathering metrics for all resources in the subscription. Cannot be used if `resource_graph_query_filter` is set. |                                                                               | no       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `regions`                     | `list(string)` | The list of regions for gathering metrics and enables gathering metrics for all resources in the subscription. Can't be used if `resource_graph_query_filter` is set. |                                                                               | no       |
```

Valid values for `azure_cloud_environment` are `azurecloud`, `azurechinacloud`, `azuregovernmentcloud` and `azurepprivatecloud`.

> `validate_dimensions` is disabled by default to reduce the number of azure exporter instances requires when a `resource_type` has metrics with varying dimensions. When `validate_dimensions` is enabled you will need 1 exporter instance per metric + dimension combination which is more tedious to maintain.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`validate_dimensions` is disabled by default to reduce the number of Azure exporter instances requires when a `resource_type` has metrics with varying dimensions. When `validate_dimensions` is enabled you will need one exporter instance per metric + dimension combination which is more tedious to maintain.  
```

> 

Reviewer 2: is this a breaking change?

Author: Maybe? This used to default to `true` so any existing configs won't break but the default behavior will change. I could flip the default to `true` to match the existing behavior or add it in the breaking changes section.

Reviewer 2: considering the feature, I think it's better to leave the false default and do a breaking change. wdyt @tpaschalis @mattdurham ?

Reviewer 3: From what I understand, it would only mean existing configs could potentially start accepting more dimensions although they would be manually specified anyway

Reviewer 4: Whats the scope of the change between the two? Feels like we are getting more metrics, are we talking 2x,10x,100x? Consider me very ignorant of the internal workings of azure :)

Reviewer 4: For some additional context, if it makes sense to do a breaking change then I am onboard with it but it would need to be documented.

Reviewer 3: @mattdurham I don't know much either about azure internals but I'm thinking the "break" is that wrong configs would start working. Say if someone has something like this and the agent is running, it would start working catching the default dimensions for each metric.
```
prometheus.exporter.azure "example" {
	subscriptions = ["<...>"]
	resource_type = "Microsoft.Network/applicationGateways"

	included_dimensions = []  
	metrics             = [
		"BackendResponseStatus",
		"Throughput",
	]
	timespan = "PT1M"
}
```

Author: This might be more of a behavioral change vs a breaking change. It won't change any currently working configuration someone will be running. They will still get the same amount of data. 

On main a config which requests this data from azure fails but runs without issue on this branch,
```yaml
            resource_type: ["microsoft.containerservice/managedclusters"]
            metrics:
              - node_cpu_usage_millicores
              - node_cpu_usage_percentage
              - node_disk_usage_bytes
              - node_disk_usage_percentage
              - node_memory_rss_bytes
              - node_memory_rss_percentage
              - node_memory_working_set_bytes
              - node_memory_working_set_percentage
              - node_network_in_bytes
              - node_network_out_bytes
            included_resource_tags:
              - environment
            included_dimensions:
              - node
              - nodepool
              - device
```
The `device` dimension is only valid for some of the requested metrics, https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/reference/supported-metrics/microsoft-containerservice-managedclusters-metrics. The only valid way to do this on main was to split the config in to multiple definitions (do a self scrape in static mode or multiple exporter definitions in flow mode). 

Without validation though there's no safe guards for mistyping/misconfiguration so accidentally doing something like `devie` would not give you an error where it would previously.

Reviewer 4: Sounds reasonable then and pretty fine with this then

		"SuccessServerLatency",
		"Transactions",
	]
	included_dimensions = [
        "ApiName",

>         "TransactionType",

Reviewer 2: nit: indent

Author: Oddly, locally this is all spaced properly and renders as I would expect. I'm really confused about why it's off when pushed.
